This Month in Linebender, February 2025 (#91)
linebender/linebender.github.io: content/blog/2025-03-06-tmil-14/index.md

There is some important work upcoming:

- [xilem#873][]: Olivier started to develop his "arbitrary properties" feature, which is intended for styling.
- [xilem#875][]: Adds an image widget containing arbitrary vector graphics content, by Richard Dodd.

As Parley has now been released to crates.io (discussed later in this update), we're hoping to release a new alpha of Xilem and Masonry to crates.io in March.

## Vello

Vello is our GPU vector renderer.
It can draw large 2D scenes with high performance, using GPU compute shaders for most of the work.

- [vello#803][]: Removed the `render_to_surface` API, as `wgpu`'s new [`TextureBlitter`][] utility makes it unnecessary.
- [vello#832][] (in review): Jared Moulton added support for font embolden to our text handling.

As mentioned last month, we have started to develop a version of Vello which works on downlevel GPUs without strong support for compute shaders.
<!-- We can now announce that this will be developed as a collaboration with ... .
... thinks that this project can ... -->

In February, Raph opened [vello#818][], which provided the first implementation of this hybrid pipeline.

> We are planning to refactor this to share most of its code with an ongoing CPU-only implementation<!-- , which is being developed by Laurenz Stampfl for [his/her/their] ... . -->.

Author: ```suggestion
We are planning to refactor this to share most of its code with an ongoing CPU-only implementation, which will be especially useful for performance measurement and CI use cases.
```

From discussion at [#office hours > Renderer 2025-03-19](https://xi.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/359642-office-hours/topic/Renderer.202025-03-19)

> We are planning to refactor this to share most of its code with an ongoing CPU-only implementation<!-- , which is being developed by Laurenz Stampfl for [his/her/their] ... . -->.

Reviewer: I think it's good as is for now. :)

This is just a stub, but we are planning on filling these crates out imminently, allowing collaborative work on both pipelines (hybrid and CPU-only).
You can follow the progress in [#gpu > Vello Hybrid](https://xi.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/197075-gpu/topic/Vello.20Hybrid) and other threads in [#gpu](https://xi.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/197075-gpu).

## Parley

Parley is a text layout library.
It handles text layout, mostly at the level of line breaking and resolving glyph positions.

We released [Parley and Fontique 0.3.0][] to crates.io.
These contain many of the features we have discussed over the previous months, including significant improvements to `PlainEditor`.

<!-- TODO: If we want to say anything more here, someone else will have to do it. -->

## Resvg

We released [Resvg 0.45.0][] in February.
This is the first release under the stewardship of Linebender.
We'd like to reiterate our many thanks to Yevhenii Reizner for the years of hard work that he has poured into this and other crates.
The largest change in this release is the relicense to dual Apache-2.0 MIT.
It also includes support for the `!important` CSS flag.

> <!-- TODO: If we want to say anything more here, someone else will have to do it. -->

Reviewer: I think this should be good.

- [vello#803][]: Removed the `render_to_surface` API, as `wgpu`'s new [`TextureBlitter`][] utility makes it unnecessary.
- [vello#832][] (in review): Jared Moulton added support for font embolden to our text handling.

Last month we mentioned a research exploration into a CPU/GPU hybrid 2D rendering mode.
This hybrid mode works well on downlevel GPUs without strong support for compute shaders, and is also more memory efficient.
There has been a lot of interest from the community, and we are now moving forward with building out this rendering mode in Vello.
We are very excited that Alex Gemberg and Taj Pereira, two engineers from Canva, are joining the collaboration on this renderer.

In February, Raph opened [vello#818][], which provided the first implementation of this hybrid pipeline.

> We are planning to refactor this to share most of its code with an ongoing CPU-only implementation, which is being developed by Laurenz Stampfl as his Masters project.

Author: Hmm. I was under the impression that @LaurenzV indicated yesterday wanting this not to be announced here.

Reviewer: Sounds good!
